---
title: "README.md"
author: "Chris Albee"
date: "Sunday, March 22, 2015"
output: html_document
---
==================================================================

#### Getting and Cleaning Data: Course Project

==================================================================

Christopher Albee
getdata-012
for: Profs. Jeff Leek, PhD; Roger D. Peng, PhD; Brian Caffo, PhD
coursera.org

==================================================================


#### Project Summary

The purpose of this project is to demonstrate the ability to collect, work with, and clean a data set. The goal is to prepare tidy data that can be used for later analysis. The following must be submitted: 
    1. a tidy data set as described below. 
    2. a link to a Github repository having the script--named run_analysis.R--which performs the analysis.
    3. a code book that describes the variables, the data, and any transformations or work that were performed to clean up the data called CodeBook.md. 
    4. additionally, this README file must be included in the repo with all other required artifacts; it explains how all of the scripts work and how they are connected (see below).  


#### The repo includes the following files:

- 'README.txt'

- 'run_analysis.R': Performs analysis on several files containing records derived from data collected from sensors in the Samsung Galaxy S Smartphone. These records contain measurements of triaxial acceleration from an accelerometer (total acceleration) and the estimated body acceleration. The R file fulfills the following Project requirements:
    1. Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.
    2. Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement. 
    3. Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set
    4. Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names. 
    5. From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.

- 'tidy_dataset.txt': The tidy dataset generated by run_analysis.R.

- 'CodeBook.md': A code book that describes the variables, the data, and any transformations or work performed to clean up the data. It also describes how the R code fulfills each of the 5 requirements listed above.

#### Running the code: 

<ul>
##### If you want to run run_analysis.R, ensure the following conditions are met:
<li>Download and unzip into a temp directory the files located at 
https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip
<li>Ensure that the following unzipped objects are copied into your working directory:
  <br/>--  the directory "test"
  <br/>--  the directory "train"
  <br/>--  the file "activity_labels.txt"
  <br/>--  the file "features.txt"
<li>Ensure that the R script "run_analysis.R" is located in your working directory also. This script reads from the files and directories listed above.
<li>Run the following code in the RStudio Console:
    <br/>&gt; source('run_analysis.R')
    <br/>&gt; run()
</ul>

#### Acknowledgements

- Cotton, Richard (2013-09-09). Learning R . O'Reilly Media. Kindle Edition. 

- Teetor, Paul (2011-03-03). R Cookbook (O'Reilly Cookbooks). O'Reilly Media. Kindle Edition.

- Wickham, Hadley, "Tidy Data". Journal of Statistical Software, Vol. 59, Issue 10, Sep 2014. 
